templates/index-template.md, before:

---
title: Welcome to Spectra
templateClass: welcome-page
---

# Welcome to the Spectra!

A static site generator built on top of Markdown with Mathpix Markdown support.

## Install

```
npm install -g @mathpix/spectra
```

## Usage

```sh
# To convert a directory of markdown files into a static site
spectra ./content ./public

# You can also watch the input directory for changes with --watch flag
spectra ./content ./public --watch

# If you want to preview the built html locally you can use serve command
spectra ./content ./public --serve
```

## Help

```
$ spectra --help
Usage: spectra [options] [input] [output]

A static site generator built on top of Mathpix Markdown

Options:
  -V, --version                     output the version number
  -i, --input [directory-or-file]   input directory of markdown to convert into html. (default: ".")
  -o, --output [directory-or-file]  output directory to save the converted html. (default: "./dist")
  -w, --watch                       watch the directory of markdown for changes and convert if changed.
  -s, --serve                       serve the converted html on a local port with reloading
  -v, --verbose                     enable verbose mode to add more logging
  -h, --help                        display help for command
```

## Configuration

### HTML Layout

You can modify the HTML template layout created in the input directory at `./spectra/layout/layout.njk` to customize the output HTML.

### YAML Front Matter

For use in the title and description HTML metatags the default layout can use YAML front matter defined in the markdown files.

You can also overwrite the default permalink naming using `permalink` field.

*Note:* Make sure to include trailing slash to create a directory with a corresponding index.html file.

```
---
title: Spectra
description: A static site generator built on top of Markdown with Mathpix Markdown support.
permalink: "tools/cli/spectra/"
---
# Spectra
````

## Troubleshooting

### File Naming Conventions

All files in the input directory will be moved to the output directory. 

Any Markdown or Mathpix Markdown files will be converted to html using the following algorithm to have pretty permalink URLs:

1. Lowercase the file name and remove the extension
2. Create a directory with this lowercased non-extension name
3. Convert the \[mathpix-\]markdown to html and save it as index.html in this directory

For example:

- ./input/README.md becomes ./output/readme/index.html

A special case for INDEX.md which omits the directory and simple becomes index.html

- ./input/INDEX.md becomes ./output/index.html available at `/`

Nested folders also work:

- ./input/section/INDEX.md becomes ./output/section/index.html available at `/section`
- ./input/section/README.md becomes ./output/section/readme/index.html available at `/section/readme`

Commit message:

set path to input directory in layout

templates/index-template.md, after:

---
title: Welcome to Spectra
generatedIndex: true
---


<h2>* You can edit this page at <span  style="color:green;" id="input-dir">${inputDir}/index.md</span>.</h1>

# Welcome to the Spectra!

A static site generator built on top of Markdown with Mathpix Markdown support.

## Install

```
npm install -g @mathpix/spectra
```

## Usage

```sh
# To convert a directory of markdown files into a static site
spectra ./content ./public

# You can also watch the input directory for changes with --watch flag
spectra ./content ./public --watch

# If you want to preview the built html locally you can use serve command
spectra ./content ./public --serve
```

## Help

```
$ spectra --help
Usage: spectra [options] [input] [output]

A static site generator built on top of Mathpix Markdown

Options:
  -V, --version                     output the version number
  -i, --input [directory-or-file]   input directory of markdown to convert into html. (default: ".")
  -o, --output [directory-or-file]  output directory to save the converted html. (default: "./dist")
  -w, --watch                       watch the directory of markdown for changes and convert if changed.
  -s, --serve                       serve the converted html on a local port with reloading
  -v, --verbose                     enable verbose mode to add more logging
  -h, --help                        display help for command
```

## Configuration

### HTML Layout

You can modify the HTML template layout created in the input directory at `./spectra/layout/layout.njk` to customize the output HTML.

### YAML Front Matter

For use in the title and description HTML metatags the default layout can use YAML front matter defined in the markdown files.

You can also overwrite the default permalink naming using `permalink` field.

*Note:* Make sure to include trailing slash to create a directory with a corresponding index.html file.

```
---
title: Spectra
description: A static site generator built on top of Markdown with Mathpix Markdown support.
permalink: "tools/cli/spectra/"
---
# Spectra
````

## Troubleshooting

### File Naming Conventions

All files in the input directory will be moved to the output directory. 

Any Markdown or Mathpix Markdown files will be converted to html using the following algorithm to have pretty permalink URLs:

1. Lowercase the file name and remove the extension
2. Create a directory with this lowercased non-extension name
3. Convert the \[mathpix-\]markdown to html and save it as index.html in this directory

For example:

- ./input/README.md becomes ./output/readme/index.html

A special case for INDEX.md which omits the directory and simple becomes index.html

- ./input/INDEX.md becomes ./output/index.html available at `/`

Nested folders also work:

- ./input/section/INDEX.md becomes ./output/section/index.html available at `/section`
- ./input/section/README.md becomes ./output/section/readme/index.html available at `/section/readme`
